h2. Thank you for your interest in the Helianto Project
	
Please, read bellow some useful information to get started with any Helianto-based project.
	
h3. Root, trunk and business spaces
	
To get started quickly, Helianto provides installation routines to create a user named "manager". A manager is automatically assigned full privileges, being able to control both so called "root" and and "trunk" entities.
	
This concept help to bind entities within isolation levels and create a management hierarchy. One can say, for example, that the organization "A" creates a business space isolated from the business space of organization "B". Trunk entities like accounts or customers from organization "A" are not visible to any organization "B" user. Root entities, however, may be shared across business spaces, what is appropriate in the case of provinces or system level services.

One important exception to this rule is the identity. Identities do not belong to any business space, neither to a broader name space, created by a special entity called "Operator", that encompasses all its child business spaces
(technically is possible to have more than one set of name space + operator + business spaces). The identity maps to a person in the real world, and being so, must be unique across any possible boundary.

h3. Your authorization

To map an identity to a business space, Helianto provides users and user groups, making it possible for the same identity to have different access privileges when jumping from one  business space to another. The minimum set of privileges is granted for members of a group named "USERS", that must exist for any business, as well as other mandatory group named 
"ADMIN", to hold administrative roles. All of this is applied to an application using the Spring Security API, a very strong and flexible library, well fitted to keep authentication and authorization rules in the so called "Security Context".

h3. Getting started

Helianto's mission (see href="project's web page":http://www.helianto.org ) does not encourage the development of a working application, including a WEB or GUI user interface. It promotes, instead, the creation of an extensible service layer API. Nevertheless, a WEB application packaged in helianto.war is provided as a sample. Please, deploy it to any servlet container (like Tomcat or Jetty) and login to  http://localhost:8080/helianto as *strong*manager with password  inactive (without the quotes). The admin application uses a stand alone installer to prepare a minimum environment with a DEFAULT operator (a single namespace), a DEFAULT entity, in top of the first business space, and the required USER and ADMIN groups with the appropriate privileges applied to the manager user.

You can use the sample application to install some extra business spaces to be managed by you.
